meet scuba this little gal might
not look like a bloodhound but
she helped out National
Geographic in a huge way my name
is Alan Torchic and I build
cameras for National Geographic
and my job takes me all over the
world
deploying these camera systems
probably one of the losses
devastating losses of the camera
was with the system that we call
the drift can we spent about a
year developing these two
cameras we took them to Miami to
deploy them for the first time
in the ocean
we went out in the middle of
this crazy storm and put them
into the water went below the
surface
when they came back to the
surface they were caught in one
of the fastest ocean currents on
earth and basically they were
just ripped out to sea and taken
further than what was safe for
us to follow them and at that
point they they were lost
so how does this little gal
become our hero so it's three
years later and we've just been
contacted by this french guy who
is sailing across the Atlantic
and he's found one of our
cameras literally in the middle
of the Atlantic Ocean we're
talking thousands and thousands
of miles away from where we
originally employed them within
a very good day more win and the
made-up began to Bach
and we saw this ball who was
lighting with a certain so we
decide to to change your way and
to approach it
we saw it was for over electrics
we thought it was it completely
in the children come around but
we know we were not sure and we
saw his weight was a coming from
nationality records getting the
camera back was incredible i
mean it survive for three years
floating on the ocean which note
says pretty good things about
the design in general but not
only that there was footage on
the camera and that can actually
be used for research our
scientist dr. Neil Hammerschlag
he's going to review this
footage to get an understanding
of the organisms that live at
those depths in the ocean it's
not every day a dog sea legs is
the help National Geographic
study the oceans I can't think
of a better ending to this story
not only did we find a puppy but
we found arguably one of the
cutest puppies in the world
you did a bandit